Update the changelog with release notes for the upcoming v0.14 (#3994)
purescript/purescript: CHANGELOG.md

Bugfixes:

Other improvements:

## v0.14.0

### Polykinds

Polymorphic kinds, based on the [Kind Inference for Datatypes](https://richarde.dev/papers/2020/kind-inference/kind-inference.pdf) paper (#3779, #3831, #3929, @natefaubion)

Kinds are to types what types are to terms (although kinds are themselves types now), but whereas we have polymorphic types, kinds were monomorphic.

This meant that we were not able to abstract over kinds, leading for instance to a proliferation of proxy types:

```purescript
data Proxy (a :: Type) = Proxy
data SProxy (a :: Symbol) = SProxy
data RProxy (row :: # Type) = RProxy
```

Now we can have a single proxy type, whose parameter has a polymorphic kind.

#### Type In Type

The type-checker now supports `TypeInType` (or `Type :: Type`), so the old `Kind` data type and namespace is now gone. Kinds and types are the same and exist in the same namespace.

Previously one could do:

```purescript
foreign import kind Boolean
foreign import data True :: Boolean
foreign import data False :: Boolean
```

> Where the kind `Boolean` and type `Boolean` were two different things. This is no longer the case. The `Prim` kind `Boolean` is now removed, and you can just use `Prim` type `Boolean` in the same way. This is a breaking change.

Reviewer: Can we add a note that we still need the `foreign import data`s because constructors are not automatically lifted? (i.e. no `DataKinds`)

Author: I added a note about this after the announce of the deprecation of `foreign import kind` delcarations.

For example the instance for `newtype Additive a = Additive a` no longer implements `unwrap` and `wrap`:

```diff
+instance newtypeAdditive :: Newtype (Additive a) a
-instance newtypeAdditive :: Newtype (Additive a) a where
-  wrap = Additive
-  unwrap (Additive a) = a
```

Derived instances don't require any modifications.

* Reform handling of quote characters in raw strings (#3961, @rhendric)

Quotes behaved rather unexpectedly in various edge cases inside raw strings. This clears things up by enforcing the following specification:

```
'"""' '"'{0,2} ([^"]+ '"'{1,2})* [^"]* '"""'
```

Meaning that raw strings can contain up to two successive quotes, any number of times, but three successive quotes are not allowed inside.

* Unsupport bare negative literals as equational binders (#3956, @rhendric)

> It used to be possible to match on negative litterals, such as `-1`, but this prevented parsing matches on constructors aliased to `-`. The compiler will reject matches on _bare_ negative litterals, but they can still be matched by wrapping them in parentheses.

Reviewer 2: ‘litterals’ should be ‘literals’ (×2)

* Forbid partial data constructors exports (#3872, @kl0tl)

> Exporting only some of the constructors of a type meant that changes internal to a module, such that adding or removing an unexported constructor, could cause unexhaustive pattern matches errors in downstream code. Partial explicit export lists will have to be completed with the missing constructors or replaced by implicit export lists.

Reviewer 2: ‘such that’ should be ‘such as’
‘pattern matches errors’ should be ‘pattern match errors’

#### Fixes

* Only include direct dependencies in the output for `purs graph` instead of their transitive closure (#3993, @colinwahl)

* Fix the reversal of the qualifier of qualified operators (#3971, @rhendric)

Qualified operators, for instance `Data.Array.(!)`, were interpreted with a reversed qualifier, like `Array.Data.(!)`.

* Check all recursive paths in data binding groups (#3936, @natefaubion)

The compiler was not catching recursive type synonyms when some recursive paths were guarded by data types or newtypes.

* Desugar type operator aliases inside parens (#3935, @natefaubion)

The compiler did not accept type operators inside parens in prefix position, except `(->)`.

* Pin language-javascript to a specific version (#3904, @hdgarrood)

Allowing the compiler to be built against various versions of `language-javascript` meant that multiple builds of the same version of the compiler could accept different syntaxes for JavaScript foreign modules, depending on how they were built.

#### Improvements

* Improve error message when `negate` isn't imported (#3952, @mhmdanas)

> This shows a specific message when using negative litterals but `Data.Ring.negate` is out of scope, similar to the messages shown when using do notation if `Control.Bind.bind` and `Control.Bind.discard` are out of scope.

Reviewer 2: ‘litterals’ again

Bugfixes:

Other improvements:

## v0.14.0

### Polykinds

Polymorphic kinds, based on the [Kind Inference for Datatypes](https://richarde.dev/papers/2020/kind-inference/kind-inference.pdf) paper (#3779, #3831, #3929, @natefaubion)

> Kinds are to types what types are to terms (although kinds are themselves types now), but whereas we have polymorphic types, kinds were monomorphic.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Conceptually, kinds are to types what types are to terms (although kinds are themselves types now). But while we have polymorphic types, kinds were previously monomorphic.
```

I found this sentence a bit difficult to read; I think it's a little clearer to separate the comment about kinds -> types and types -> terms from the comment about polymorphism.

Reviewer 4: I'm unsure about the addition of "Conceptually" here. Did you intend to imply that in actuality, kinds are _not_ to types what types are to terms? I don't think the statement "kinds are to types what types are to terms" needs any qualification.

Reviewer 2: I took the ‘conceptually’ to indicate that the analogy is imperfect (it was a better analogy when kinds were a distinct universe above types the same way that types are a distinct universe above terms, but now kinds only exist as a relationship between types). I'm fine with that but maybe ‘approximately’ would be a clearer shade of paint to you?

Reviewer 4: I think if you understand "kind" as "a type which, in this context, is being used to classify a type rather than a term", then I don't see this as an approximation: isn't the relationship the same, even if types are differ from terms in other ways?

Reviewer 2: I think anyone who already understands ‘kind’ to mean that doesn't need this sentence to clarify what kinds are. :smile: I figure this is just a brief summary targeting someone who doesn't have a crisp idea of what a kind is and wants to understand how/if this change affects them, and that person might be confused unless they understand that the analogy only holds for ‘kind-of’ the relationship relative to ‘type-of’ but not for ‘kind’ the category of data manipulated by the compiler relative to ‘type’ the category etc.

Reviewer 4: Right - I mean it's a definition, basically, isn't it? Ignore the "if you understand 'kind' as ..." part, then. I think whenever you say "A is to B as C is to D" and A/C and B/D aren't exactly the same things there's always going to be at least one way in which they differ, so I'd say it's reasonable to consider the fact that types and kinds live in the same namespace now (whereas types and terms don't) immaterial to the original statement. But maybe we can avoid this issue by just being a bit more explicit to start with? "Just as types classify terms, kinds classify types."?

This meant that we were not able to abstract over kinds, leading for instance to a proliferation of proxy types:

```purescript
data Proxy (a :: Type) = Proxy
data SProxy (a :: Symbol) = SProxy
data RProxy (row :: # Type) = RProxy
data RLProxy (row :: RowList) = RLProxy
```

Now we can have a single proxy type, whose parameter has a polymorphic kind.

#### Type In Type

> The type-checker now supports `TypeInType` (or `Type :: Type`), so the old `Kind` data type and namespace is now gone. Kinds and types are the same and exist in the same namespace.

Reviewer 3: I wasn't personally familiar with `TypeInType`, which is -- as far as I know -- referring to the Haskell extension `-XTypeInType`. The [GHC documentation for the extension](https://downloads.haskell.org/~ghc/8.0.2/docs/html/users_guide/glasgow_exts.html#ghc-flag--XTypeInType) has a nice summary:

> Allow kinds to be as intricate as types, allowing explicit quantification over kind variables, higher-rank kinds, and the use of type synonyms and families in kinds, among other features.

Is this also true of our implementation (@natefaubion)? If so, is it worth adapting this sentence to help briefly note what the benefit of adding this feature was?

Author: I think this is all true, but `TypeInType` has become an alias for other extensions in 8.6.1 and was deprecated in 8.8.1, so perhaps it would be better not to mention it there? What would you think of renaming the title of this section to `Type :: Type` and drop the start of this sentence?

```suggestion
The old `Kind` data type and namespace is now gone. Kinds and types are the same and exist in the same namespace.
```

Reviewer 5: For what it's worth, this change sounds reasonable to me.

Reviewer 4: Sounds good to me.

Classes can have signatures too, but they must end with the new `Constraint` kind instead of `Type`. For example, here's the new definition of `Prim.Row.Cons`:

```purescript
class Cons :: forall k. Symbol -> k -> Row k -> Row k -> Constraint
class Cons label a tail row | label a tail -> row, label row -> a tail
```

### Safe zero-cost coercions

Coercible constraints, based on the [Safe Zero-cost Coercions for Haskell](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/research/uploads/prod/2018/05/coercible-JFP.pdf) paper (#3351, #3810, #3896, #3873, #3860, #3905, #3893, #3909, #3931, #3906, #3881, #3878, #3937, #3930, #3955, #3927, @lunaris, @rhendric, @kl0tl, @hdgarrood)

`Prim.Coerce.Coercible` is a new compiler-solved class, used to relate types with the same runtime representation. One can use `Safe.Coerce.coerce` (from the new [`safe-coerce`](https://github.com/purescript/purescript-safe-coerce) library) instead of `Unsafe.Coerce.unsafeCoerce` to safely turn a `a` into a `b` when `Coercible a b` holds.

#### Roles

> Types parameters now have _roles_, which depend on how they affect the runtime representation of their type. There's three roles, from most to least restrictive:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Types parameters now have _roles_, which depend on how they affect the runtime representation of their type. There are three roles, from most to least restrictive:
```

> * _nominal_ parameters are only coercible to themselves.
> 
> * _representational_ parameters are coercible when a Coercible constraint holds.
> 
> * _phantom_ parameters are coercible to anything.

Reviewer 3: Not a firm suggestion, but I find this a little easier to parse when written in terms of the action you, the user, can take:

```suggestion
* _nominal_ parameters can only be coerced to themselves.

* _representational_ parameters can only be coerced to each other when a Coercible constraint holds.

* _phantom_ parameters can be coerced to anything.
```

But feel free to ignore this if you feel differently or my phrasing is less precise.

#### Role annotations

> The compiler infers _nominal_ roles for foreign data types, which is safe but can be too constraining sometimes. For example this prevents to coerce `Effect Age` to `Effect Int`, even though they actually have the same runtime representation.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The compiler infers _nominal_ roles for foreign data types, which is safe but can be too constraining sometimes. For example this prevents the coercion of `Effect Age` to `Effect Int`, even though they have the same runtime representation.
```

Quotes behaved rather unexpectedly in various edge cases inside raw strings. This clears things up by enforcing the following specification:

```
'"""' '"'{0,2} ([^"]+ '"'{1,2})* [^"]* '"""'
```

Meaning that raw strings can contain up to two successive quotes, any number of times, but three successive quotes are not allowed inside.

* Unsupport bare negative literals as equational binders (#3956, @rhendric)

It used to be possible to match on negative literals, such as `-1`, but this prevented parsing matches on constructors aliased to `-`. The compiler will reject matches on _bare_ negative literals, but they can still be matched by wrapping them in parentheses.

* Forbid partial data constructors exports (#3872, @kl0tl)

Exporting only some of the constructors of a type meant that changes internal to a module, such as adding or removing an unexported constructor, could cause unexhaustive pattern match errors in downstream code. Partial explicit export lists will have to be completed with the missing constructors or replaced by implicit export lists.

* Print compile errors to stdout, progress messages to stderr (#3839, @JordanMartinez)

> The compiler used to print errors to stderr, which is especially annoying when piping its output to another program with the `--json-errors` flag. Stderr is really for diagnostics about the execution of a program, whereas its expected output ought to be printed to stdout.

Reviewer 4: I think this is a little opinionated, and it might be better focus a bit more on the "what" rather than the "why". When you say "its expected output ought to be printed to stdout", you haven't actually said where it _is_ printed, only where you think it should be printed. How about:
```suggestion
Compiler errors and warnings arising from your code are now printed to stdout rather than stderr, and progress messages such as "Compiling Data.Array" are now printed to stderr rather than stdout. Warnings and errors arising from incorrect use of the CLI, such as specifying input files which don't exist or specifying globs which don't match any files, are still printed to stderr (as they were before). This change is useful when using the `--json-errors` flag, since  you can now pipe JSON errors into other programs without having to perform awkward gymnastics such as `2>&1`.
```

* Fix the reversal of the qualifier of qualified operators (#3971, @rhendric)

Qualified operators, for instance `Data.Array.(!)`, were interpreted with a reversed qualifier, like `Array.Data.(!)`.

* Check all recursive paths in data binding groups (#3936, @natefaubion)

The compiler was not catching recursive type synonyms when some recursive paths were guarded by data types or newtypes.

* Desugar type operator aliases inside parens (#3935, @natefaubion)

The compiler did not accept type operators inside parens in prefix position, except `(->)`.

* Pin language-javascript to a specific version (#3904, @hdgarrood)

Allowing the compiler to be built against various versions of `language-javascript` meant that multiple builds of the same version of the compiler could accept different syntaxes for JavaScript foreign modules, depending on how they were built.

#### Improvements

* Improves protocol errors from the IDE server (#3998, @kritzcreek)

The IDE server now respond with more descriptive error messages when failing to parse a command. This should make it easier to contribute fixes to the various clients.

> * Extend ImportCompletion with declarationType (#3997, @i-am-the-slime)

Reviewer 4: Might be worth making it clearer that this is to do with the IDE server?
```suggestion
* Extend IDE ImportCompletion with declarationType (#3997, @i-am-the-slime)
```

* Improve error message when `negate` isn't imported (#3952, @mhmdanas)

This shows a specific message when using negative literals but `Data.Ring.negate` is out of scope, similar to the messages shown when using do notation if `Control.Bind.bind` and `Control.Bind.discard` are out of scope.

* Add source spans to `PartiallyAppliedSynonym` errors (#3951, @rhendric)

`PartiallyAppliedSynonym` errors were usually rethrown with the appropriate source span, but not when deriving instances. This annotates those errors with the source span of the partially applied synonyms themselves, which is more robust and accurate than rethrowing the error with an approximate source span.

* Allow type synonyms in instances heads and superclass constraints (#3539, #3966, #3965, @garyb, @kl0tl)

This allows declarations such as

```purescript
type Env = { port :: Int }
newtype App a = App (ReaderT Env Aff a)
derive newtype instance monadAskApp :: MonadAsk Env App
```

or

```purescript
class (Monad m, MonadAsk Env m) <= MonadAskEnv m
```

> * Improve incremental rebuilds time for modules with large dependencies (#3899, @milesfrain)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Improve incremental rebuild times for modules with large dependencies (#3899, @milesfrain)
```

#### Other

* Warn against exported types with hidden constructors but `Generic` or `Newtype` instances (#3907, @kl0tl)

Types with hidden constructors are supposed to be opaque outside of their module of definition but `Generic` and `Newtype` instances allow to construct them with `Data.Generic.Rep.to` or `Data.Newtype.wrap` and examine their content with `Data.Generic.Rep.from` or `Data.Newtype.unwrap`, thus making void any invariant those types may witness.

* Have module re-exports appear in generated code (#3883, @citizengabe)

This is the first step towards smarter incremental rebuilds, which could skip rebuilding downstream modules when the interface of a module did not change (see #3724).

* Add a printer for CST modules (#3887, @kritzcreek)

* Deprecate constraints in foreign imports (#3829, @kl0tl)

> Constrained foreign imports leak instances dictionaries, hindering the compiler ability to optimize their representation. Manipulating dictionaries in foreign code should be avoided and foreign imports should accept the class members they need as additional arguments instead of being constrained.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Constrained foreign imports leak instance dictionaries, hindering the compiler's ability to optimize their representation. Manipulating dictionaries in foreign code should be avoided and foreign imports should accept the class members they need as additional arguments instead of being constrained.
```

Bugfixes:

Other improvements:

## v0.14.0

### Polykinds

> Polymorphic kinds, based on the [Kind Inference for Datatypes](https://richarde.dev/papers/2020/kind-inference/kind-inference.pdf) paper (#3779, #3831, #3929, @natefaubion)

Reviewer 3: It may be useful to add an explanation or demonstration of why this feature is useful (perhaps @natefaubion has ideas?). For example, my (admittedly incomplete and limited) understanding is that we now have kind polymorphism + kind inference, which enables things like a single `Proxy` type instead of the many currently used for different kinds.

Can we explain what makes this feature a noteworthy addition to the language in a few sentences and/or a brief example?

Reviewer 5: I mean, a single `Proxy` type is descriptive in itself. If one wanted to define their own kind, they needed to define their custom `Proxy` type, too. It's this whole "each kind must have it's own X" problem that polykinds solves. For example, we don't need a kind-specific type-level list anymore. We can have a kind-generic type-level list now.
I don't think that's all of polykinds, but it is a significant part.

Reviewer 3: I agree that describing the single `Proxy` type is enough of a motivating example on its own. I think we should say that explicitly in this section, briefly, to motivate why this feature is a useful addition to the language.

Author: What do you think of the short explanation I added?

Reviewer 3: I think it's great! 👍

```purescript
data Proxy :: forall k. k -> Type
data Proxy a = Proxy
```

In GHC, all signatures use the `type` prefix, but we reuse the same keyword as the subsequent declaration because we already have `foreign import data` (rather than `foreign import type`) and because it makes things align nicer. Signatures have the same rule as value-level signatures, so they must always be followed by the "real" declaration.

It's better to be explicit about polymorphism by writing signatures. Since we don't really quantify over free type variables, it's also necessary in the case that two poly-kinded arguments must have the same kind. The compiler will warn about missing kind signatures when polymorphic kinds are inferred.

Classes can have signatures too, but they must end with the new `Constraint` kind instead of `Type`. For example, `Prim.Row.Cons` now has the signature:

```purescript

> class Cons :: forall k. Symbol -> k -> Row k -> Row k -> Constraint

Reviewer 3: Previously, `Cons` had [this type](https://pursuit.purescript.org/builtins/docs/Prim.Row#t:Cons):

```purs
class Cons (label :: Symbol) (a :: k) (tail :: Row k) (row :: Row k) | label a tail -> row, label row -> a tail
```

Now, it has this type and also a kind signature, correct?

```purs
class Cons :: forall k. Symbol -> k -> Row k -> Row k -> Constraint
class Cons (label :: Symbol) (a :: k) (tail :: Row k) (row :: Row k) | label a tail -> row, label row -> a tail
```

Perhaps it can also be written this way, now that the kind signature is present:

```purs
class Cons :: forall k. Symbol -> k -> Row k -> Row k -> Constraint
class Cons label a tail row | label a tail -> row, label row -> a tail
```

It might be useful to include this as a more complete example.

Author: The documentation on Pursuit is confusing. The following class declaration fails to compile because the kind variable isn’t bound:

```purs
class Cons (label :: Symbol) (a :: k) (tail :: Row k) (row :: Row k) | label a tail -> row, label row -> a tail
```

```
Error found:
in module Example
at Example.purs:3:36 - 3:37 (line 3, column 36 - line 3, column 37)

  Type variable k is undefined.

while inferring the kind of k
while checking that type k
  has kind Type
in type synonym Cons$Dict

See https://github.com/purescript/documentation/blob/master/errors/UndefinedTypeVariable.md for more information,
or to contribute content related to this error.
```

It isn’t possible to bind the kind variable with a kind signature, meaning that the following still fails to compile:

```purs
class Cons :: forall k. Symbol -> k -> Row k -> Row k -> Constraint
class Cons (label :: Symbol) (a :: k) (tail :: Row k) (row :: Row k) | label a tail -> row, label row -> a tail
```

The kind annotations in the class head must be scrapped, as in your last snippet. The kind signature is not present in the generated documentation though:

<img width="701" alt="Capture d’écran 2021-01-23 à 15 44 00" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/2788549/105588814-e9422780-5d91-11eb-93e3-36e862e40efe.png">

Should we display kind signatures in Pursuit when they contain polymorphic kinds? Something like 

<img width="684" alt="Capture d’écran 2021-01-23 à 15 51 04" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/2788549/105592407-e5fb6b80-5d92-11eb-8992-6bd8b6b19af6.png">

Reviewer 3: Ideally we could update Pursuit to display kind signatures containing polymorphic kinds, but I'm not sure it's an easy task 😅

Reviewer 4: I think we should make updating the HTML docs generation to handle polykinds a priority post-0.14.0. I've usually regretted not being more of a stickler for this in the past when we have added new language features: any information which forms part of a module's API should be present in HTML docs, and I think in an ideal world we would actually not permit merging PRs which add language features until those features are represented properly in HTML docs.

Author: I just found out you already opened https://github.com/purescript/purescript/issues/3973 some time ago. Let's tackle this once 0.14 is out then.

```

### Safe zero-cost coercions

Coercible constraints, based on the [Safe Zero-cost Coercions for Haskell](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/research/uploads/prod/2018/05/coercible-JFP.pdf) paper (#3351, #3810, #3896, #3873, #3860, #3905, #3893, #3909, #3931, #3906, #3881, #3878, #3937, #3930, #3955, #3927, @lunaris, @rhendric, @kl0tl, @hdgarrood)

`Prim.Coerce.Coercible` is a new compiler-solved class, used to relate types with the same runtime representation. One can use `Safe.Coerce.coerce` (from the new [`safe-coerce`](https://github.com/purescript/purescript-safe-coerce) library) instead of `Unsafe.Coerce.unsafeCoerce` to safely turn a `a` into a `b` when `Coercible a b` holds.

Coercible constraints are solved according to the following rules:

> * Coercible constraints are _reflexive_, `Coercible a a` holds, _symmetric_, `Coercible a b` implies `Coercible b a`, and _transitive_, `Coercible a b` and `Coercible b c` imply `Coercible a c`.

Reviewer 3: Perhaps this would be a little easier to parse on multiple lines? ie. coercible constraints satisfy these properties:

```markdown
 * _reflexive_:`Coercible a a` holds.
 * _symmetric_: `Coercible a b` implies `Coercible b a`.
 * _transitive_: `Coercible a b` and `Coercible b c` imply `Coercible a c`.
```

Reviewer 5: I agree with the above change.

Here’s the annotation we added to `Effect` for example:

```purescript
type role Effect representational
```

Conversely, we might want to strengthen the roles of parameters with invariants invisible to the type system. Maps are the canonical example of this: the shape of their underlying tree rely on the `Ord` instance of their keys, but the `Ord` instance of a newtype may behave differently than the one of the wrapped type so it would be unsafe to allow coercions between `Map k1 a` and `Map k2 a`, even when `Coercible k1 k2` holds.

In order to forbid such unsafe coercion we added a _nominal_ annotation to the first parameter of `Map`:

```purescript
type role Map nominal representational
```

Annotated roles are compared against the roles inferred by the compiler so it is not possible to compromise safety by ascribing too permissive roles, except for foreign types.

### Other changes

#### Breaking

* Add compiler support for `Coercible` based `Newtype` (#3975, @fsoikin)

> We added a `Coercible` superclass to `Data.Newtype.Newtype` in order to implement `unwrap`, `wrap` and most newtype combinators with `coerce`. This is a breaking change for non derived instances because the `Newtype` class has no members anymore and can now only be implemented for representationally equal types (those satisfying the new superclass constraint).

Reviewer 3: Could we add a brief example of how to do this in a code snippet? For example, you'd no longer implement `wrap` and `unwrap` for the `Additive` newtype:

```diff
  newtype Additive a = Additive a

+ instance newtypeAdditive :: Newtype (Additive a) a
- instance newtypeAdditive :: Newtype (Additive a) a where
-   wrap = Additive
-   unwrap (Additive a) = a
```

Also, it's not clear to me what happens in the case of derived instances right now, like:

```purs
newtype Additive a = Additive a

derive instance newtypeAdditive :: Newtype (Additive a) _
```

Is the derived instance identical to just writing `instance`? Does it warn?

Author: I added the example you suggested!

> Also, it's not clear to me what happens in the case of derived instances right now

Derived instances are unaffected. I tried to clarify this by adding a note about that in the changelog. Is that enough?

* Pin language-javascript to a specific version (#3904, @hdgarrood)

Allowing the compiler to be built against various versions of `language-javascript` meant that multiple builds of the same version of the compiler could accept different syntaxes for JavaScript foreign modules, depending on how they were built.

#### Improvements

* Improve error message when `negate` isn't imported (#3952, @mhmdanas)

This shows a specific message when using negative litterals but `Data.Ring.negate` is out of scope, similar to the messages shown when using do notation if `Control.Bind.bind` and `Control.Bind.discard` are out of scope.

* Add source spans to `PartiallyAppliedSynonym` errors (#3951, @rhendric)

`PartiallyAppliedSynonym` errors were usually rethrown with the appropriate source span, but not when deriving instances. This annotates those errors with the source span of the partially applied synonyms themselves, which is more robust and accurate than rethrowing the error with an approximate source span.

* Allow type synonyms in instances heads and superclass constraints (#3539, #3966, #3965, @garyb, @kl0tl)

This allows declarations such as

```purescript

> newtype App a = App (ReaderT Env Aff a)

Reviewer 3: Perhaps we could explicitly include the type synonym for `Env` because it's user-defined and to make the fact it's a type synonym apparent:

```purescript
type Env = { port :: Int }
newtype App a = App (ReaderT Env Aff a)
derive newtype instance monadAskApp :: MonadAsk Env App
```

Reviewer 5: I agree with this, too.

Bugfixes:

Other improvements:

## v0.14.0

### Polykinds

Polymorphic kinds, based on the [Kind Inference for Datatypes](https://richarde.dev/papers/2020/kind-inference/kind-inference.pdf) paper (#3779, #3831, #3929, @natefaubion)

> Kinds are to types what types are to terms (except that kinds are actually themselves types now) but whereas we have polymorphic types, kinds were monorphic.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Kinds are to types what types are to terms (although kinds are themselves types now), but whereas we have polymorphic types, kinds were monomorphic.
```

> This means that we were not able to abstract over kinds, leading for instance to a proliferation of proxy types:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This meant that we were not able to abstract over kinds, leading for instance to a proliferation of proxy types:
```

> ```purescript
> data Proxy (a :: Type) = Proxy
> ```
> 
> ```purescript
> data SProxy (a :: Symbol) = SProxy
> ```
> 
> ```purescript
> data RProxy (row :: # Type) = RProxy
> ```

Reviewer 3: Perhaps these could be merged together?
```suggestion
data Proxy (a :: Type) = Proxy
data SProxy (a :: Symbol) = SProxy
data RProxy (row :: # Type) = RProxy
data RLProxy (rowlist :: RowList) = RLProxy
```

Author: Do you think we should list all the proxies, including RLProxy as you suggested, BProxy and OProxy, or just the most commons?

Reviewer 5: If our goal is to illustrate the idea, then these are likely enough. I don't think many people use `BProxy` or `OProxy` and if they do, then they are already familiar with type-level programming. Most people are probably familiar with `SProxy` and possibly with `RProxy`/`RLProxy` due to dealing with Record-related type class instances, so this list is likely enough.
If we want to be exhaustive, then adding those should be done.

Reviewer 3: I added in RLProxy because seeing so many proxies helps drive the point home :) I don’t think it has to be exhaustive.

Author: I added the RowList proxy.

Polymorphic kinds, based on the [Kind Inference for Datatypes](https://richarde.dev/papers/2020/kind-inference/kind-inference.pdf) paper (#3779, #3831, #3929, @natefaubion)

> Kinds are to types what types are to terms (except that kinds are actually themselves types now) but whereas we have polymorphic types, kinds were monorphic.

Reviewer 6: I can't find how to insert a suggestion but I think you meant `monomorphic`. Also, I'd probably say `value` instead of `term`.

Author: I corrected the typo 🙇

> I'd probably say `value` instead of `term`.

I usually prefer “value” to denote normal forms, so that term/type is orthogonal to value/expression, but I’ll apply your suggestion if others find that clearer too.

Reviewer 5: I prefer `value` as well. `term` confuses me.

Reviewer 4: I’d agree that “term” is preferable here because it is more precise than “value”; a “term” is generally any expression, whereas a “value” generally means an expression which can’t be reduced. So `7` and `3+4` are both terms, but only the former is a value. In this case we do mean term, not value.

Reviewer 6: Thanks, now I know the difference!

type role Effect representational
```

> Conversely, we might want to strengthen the roles of parameters with invariants invisible to the type system. Maps are the canonical example of this: the shape of their underlying tree rely on the `Ord` instance of their keys, but the `Ord` instance of a newtype may behave differently than the one of the wrapped type so it would be unsafe to allow coercions between `Map k1 a` and `Map k2 a` when `Coercible k1 k2` holds.

Reviewer 4: I actually think this was clearer before. Now, it reads like it _would_ be safe to allow coercions between `Map k1 a` and `Map k2` a as long as there is no `Coercible k1 k2` instance.

Author: Let’s rollback this change then.
